>> Kadi Kraman: So where we left off,
we have our mobile app with
a three-tab layout and our shopping list.
We have our counter screen,
with a nested stack navigator.
And now, we're going to work on
finishing up our shopping list app.
So, so far, we have three shopping list
items that are displayed in a list and
they are static.
So obviously,
we would like to have the user type in
ShoppingListItems with a TextInput.
So unlike the web, there is no
form component in React Native,
all the inputs are handled individually.
So the input that we use to
receive text from the user's
keyboard is called a TextInput.
So we'll go to our index screen,
we can create a TextInput.
And you'll notice that
nothing whatsoever happened.
Well, it looks like, and
it's because TextInput, by default,
doesn't have any styling at all.
So in order for it to be visible,
we want to add some styling.
So let's add a borderColor,
let's say style.
Let's pull this into a style component,
so let's do styles.textInput.
>> Kadi Kraman: And here,
let's give it a borderColor.
Let's do theme.colors,
it says import theme.color,
let's do a LightGray.
>> Kadi Kraman: And again,
nothing's happened because we also need
the borderWidth.
So let's do a borderWidth of 2.
There you go.
And now, we get our little TextInput.
So let's also give it some space.
So let's do padding: 12.
So padding will give space
inside the component.
And let's do marginHorizontal:
12,
>> Kadi Kraman: So
it's not pressed against the corners.
And let's do a marginBottom: 12,
>> Kadi Kraman: So
it's not next to this list.
And let's do a fontSize of 18.
>> Kadi Kraman: And like a borderRadius,
so let's do a borderRadius,
>> Kadi Kraman: borderRadius of 50.
Make them really rounded borders.
All right, I'm gonna also get
rid of this justifyContent and
move things to the top of the screen.
Now, in a TextInput,
we can add a placeholder.
So let's do a placeholder, so e.g Coffee.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
So the way that the keyboard gets opened
is actually if you focus on a TextInput,
the keyboard will automatically open.
I'm on a simulator here,
so I need to do this.
But basically, if I now reload,
hopefully, there we go.
So by focusing on the TextInput,
the keyboard opens.
So that's an interesting thing.
So the keyboard is actually controlled
in a lot of ways by the TextInput.
And I think we need some padding here so
it's not against the screen.
So just in my container,
I'm gonna add a paddingTop of 12.
Lovely, let's do a controlled input,
so we're gonna use a useState hook.
So this is from React.
>> Kadi Kraman: So it will be a useState,
and it's an import from react.
And then a useState hook allows
you to store little values very
conveniently inside your react components.
And it returns an array of two items, and
you can name these array
items whatever you want.
The first item will be the value
that you are tracking.
So in our case, it will be the value
that is typed into the TextInput.
And then the second array
item will be a function
that allows you to update this value.
So usually, you would call it the thing
and then set thing or update thing.
So I'm gonna call it value and
then setValue.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
then let's make it into,
I'm gonna say that the default
value of an empty string.
And then in our TextInput,
>> Kadi Kraman: We'll do value= value.
And on the web, you would use
onChange where you get an event.
So there is an onChange here as well.
But actually, more conveniently,
you would usually use onChangeText.
Which as you can see from here, rather
than giving you a native synthetic event,
where you have to extract a value,
it actually just gives you the text,
which is, most of the time, what you need.
So let's do onChangeText, and
you can call it call setValue.
So this will be a value and
then recall setValue with the value.
But as mentioned earlier, because
the argument here and here are the same,
we can just use this convenience and
pass setValue directly here.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
now I can do some typing.
So I mentioned that the keyboard
is controlled by the TextInput,
so there's some props here that guide
you what the keyboard should look like.
So for example, the keyboardType, so
we're going to just use some text.
But for example,
if you wanted users to enter some numbers,
you could have a numeric keyboard.
Or if it's an email address,
you could have an email as keyboard, so
we'll have the at symbol
in a convenient place, etc.
You can also have autoCapitalize,
autoComplete, autoCorrect.
So there's all kinds of properties
here that you can use to make it more
suitable for the thing that
you're collecting inputs for.
So both text and numbers can be
collected using this TextInput.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
the other thing we want
to do is if you use the returnKeyType.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this defines what this
button on the bottom right will look like.
So if we do returnKeyType done,
it actually changes.
So this will be a highlighted button.
And you'll notice that I didn't create a
submit button next to this TextInput here.
And it's because we can submit when
the user presses this done button.
And the way we do that is we use
a callback, it's called onSubmitEditing.
So let's do a console.log,
>> Kadi Kraman: Submitted.
>> Kadi Kraman: Oops,
>> Kadi Kraman: So now if I call done,
you can see that it actually logs.
It calls this callback when
the done button is pressed.
Okay, and finally, let's hook up
this list to use another useState so
the shopping list is actually
an array in our device memory.
So this, let's start by creating a type.
So this is a ShoppingListItemType.
This is a TypeScript type, it will define
what our shopping list will look like.
So we want an id, which is a string, and
a name, which is also a string.
>> Kadi Kraman: And for now,
let's also do an initialList,
which you can do a ShoppingListItemType.
So this is an array of those.
>> Kadi Kraman: Oops, it's a colon.
And this will be an array of items, so
I can do id, there's 1,
and name is Coffee.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we also had some Tea and Milk.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
the same way that we store this value,
we can store the whole shopping list.
So use another useState hook, and
we'll do a shoppingList, and
setShoppingList, and useState.
And this will be an array of
these ShoppingListItemTypes.
And we're going to give it an initial
value of this initialList.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now, instead of having
these items here defined individually,
we can map over them.
So we'll do a shoppingList.map.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this will be an item,
and for each of these,
we will render one of
the ShoppingListItems.
And the ShoppingListItem
name is gonna be item.name.
I will also want to do a key,
which will just be the item.id.
>> Kadi Kraman: And finally,
let's hook up this onSubmitEditing.
So,
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's
do another function here
called handleSubmit.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
this will be an arrow function, and
we'll just check that there is
something that the user has entered.
So we'll check that the value is
not an empty string, so if (value).
Then we want to add this new
ShoppingListItem at the top of our
existing shoppingList.
So we can use this
setShoppingList function,
which was in a useState to update it.
So first, we'll create a newShoppingList.
So let's do const newShoppingLiist,
and this is gonna be an array,
and we're going to spread
the existing shoppingList.
So we'll need to keep whatever we had, and
we'll add the new item that the user has
just created to the top of the list.
So we need two things here,
we need the id and the name.
So for the id, so
if you needed unique ids,
there's UUID library or
there's NanoID libraries.
So there's ways to create unique ids.
In our cases, the ids just need
to be unique within our phone.
So I'm just going to use the timestamp.
So let's do new Date and do toISOString.
So this will be unique
within a millisecond.
So unless you're adding shopping
items close to the millisecond apart,
then this will be unique.
And let's do name, will be the value.
So now, we have our newShoppingList, and
let's set the shoppingList
to be our newShoppingList.
And finally,
we want to also clear the TextInput.
So let setValue back to an empty string.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now that we
have our handleSubmit function,
we want to call it onSubmitEditing.
>> Kadi Kraman: So hopefully,
what else do I need?
Sugar.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, and well,
I'm going to type on my keyboard.
So as soon as I type,
this is just a simulator thing.
But as soon as I type,
the on-screen keyboard disappears, but
it will work as well.
So the only thing is that onSubmitEditing,
if you're using this on a simulator,
onSubmitEditing will trigger
when you press Enter.
So I can add things as well.